"And because the first ego is individual ego, that means clinging to our own self as I, individual
ego, that's called individual ego.
And so the second ego, our ego or I, is clinging to the old poems and object as their entity or
they are existing, existing.
So that is called object ego, a phenomenal egoless, that I'm now translating. I'm sure you have
better translations and you maybe know that and also in the commentary you can look at.
The post-egoness is here, here says that, "Shout, beggar of the spirit knowledge of the
discrimination wisdom, destroy the morning of samsara concept of the self, selfhood, who the root
of samsara is self grasping."
So self grasping, maybe that's the better translation, self grasping, self grasping to the
phenomenon, so true grasping.
So now here says, "What is this sharp, regular spirit knowledge of discrimination?"
Generally, Buddha teaching is teachings of compassion and wisdom. As a union, compassion and wisdom
equally.
But then, to understand the perfect meaning of the way things are, we need wisdom.
So Buddha also teaching is worship teaching. That means because the Buddha taught what exactly way
things are, Buddha not added any extra that is not there or not in the fundamental level or
anywhere.
But just simply discover with truth or with how it is. That's called truth. To understand it, that
is then wisdom, discrimination of wisdom.
And here says, "The sharp, regular spirit knowledge of the spirit knowledge discriminates our
wisdom."
That means looking thoroughly to all the aspects, everything, and particularly this time, looking
thoroughly to the self, ego, self.
Self is so important or ego or self is so important in samsara. We all need perhaps self and ego is
so important.
And here also making the ego, selfish or ego, ego is the root of samsara.
So ego is the root of samsara. But root of ego is what? Ignorance.
The ignorance starts with grasping. Grasping to the self, grasping to the object.
Grasping to the self is ego, what's called? Grasping to the self, grasping to the object.
And now ego is, therefore it is really all the troubles in the samsara that we go through,
individually go through.
Us in the troubles in the samsara going through, everyone is because is ego.
For that reason, great master Chandideva said in his teaching that all the troubles, all the
difficulties, all the chaotrains is all started from the ego.
The ego is the biggest demon ever existed. It made trouble in the past, not it making trouble now,
it make trouble in the future.
Therefore, why I should keep this trouble maker? The biggest trouble maker should uproot that.
So, I mean, that's what Chandideva said, the Buddha said too in the Buddha teaching.
You think it's true or not? Everything good and bad and hope and pain, all start with the ego.
And one is suffering. What a very master, Chandra Giddi said, the moment I cling to myself, that
moment you have, in a way, let a rejection to the others.
Self-attraction and let a distance to the others.
Be it when the attachment and the self-distance, all the troubles arises.
Where that started goes a clinging, that clinging comes from the ignorance.
And here, he said also, he said, destroy the mountain of the samsaras.
That the concept of the sakur. In the Buddha teaching, he said, where we are holding this, like,
where we are this holding of the ego.
Generally, in Buddhism, ego is, of course, on the relative level, on the conventional level,
Buddhism or the Buddha is not denying that we don't have ego.
We can call ego, or I, we can call I. Even Buddha himself said, I am sitting in the Varanasi.
I am sitting on the kushina, or I am sitting on the kharastha in the Jeddah groups.
I give these teachings this and that. That's the conventional level, relative level.
And that is the support to you, to communicate it to the others.
But it's not something Buddha knows because it exists, it's already a truth existing.
This is common, also called relative levels.
In the relative level, there is true relative truth in it.
The used for relative truth, unused for relative truth.
Used for relative truth is such as all this. What is all relative?
Unusable relative truth is such as dream, mirage, reflection, moon in the water.
Even though they appeared, it don't function exactly as moon, as exactly the image, the reflections
.
Those are the unused for relative truths.
But ego is even in Buddhism. Even if it's not in that near, I is.
Because it's not really existing. It's not existing.
It is the phenomena that we input by the conceptions.
We hold onto that.
It's not something existing as like this furniture or this cup.
Or it's not just in the existing reflection in the moon and the water.
But even though it's not existing, it is the troublemaker as in the teaching.
He said it's true.
All the trouble that comes from and for that reason, I said mountain, mountain.
Samsara. Samsara stands up with ego.
What is samsara?
We all know. Of course, we call it samsara.
Samsara is emotion and karma.
Negative emotions and karmas are the cause of this samsara.
The very fundamental cause of samsara.
And then what it means is suffering.
Or changes, all chaotics.
Those are known as suffering truths.
God's gracious teacher, brother, give the teacher, force the teaching.
All of the suffering truths, suffering truths.
That's samsara.
Where that started, from the ego, from the grasping, from the ignorance.
And that means prevail.
It's from nothingness actually. It came from nothingness.
It's our mind. We went through those teachings and you know that.
It starts with mind. Mind is empty.
Our mind is nothing that really exists that we can all figure out, as discussed.
But it all starts from this.
Start on this. And this is where we cling in this.
This. We have been clinging this.
Then it's to the ego.
We cling it to our self.
We cling in the teaching always.
We cling in self to our five aggregates.
We don't need any true reason, reason.
We grasping, cling it to the five aggregates, all the aggregates.
We cling it to the aggregates without any reason, without any proof.
We just hold. This is just a belief.
It's not something that exists in the whole.
That is what in the teaching he said.
That aggregates, what the aggregates.
Aggregates are five aggregates. We are all good. Home aggregates.
Perception aggregates, mental formation aggregates, and then consciousness aggregates.
Those are five aggregates.
Those aggregates are existing on the preliminary level.
It is all "I", even though there is no true substantial entity existing.
But yet it is all.
But ego is nowhere that we can find.
Anywhere or "I", that's so important what it is.
It's only, as they say, phenomena that input by our consumption,
our mind, and holding continuously.
True or not, you're American.
And the Buddha teaching said, as he said, "The discrimination ever, ever is again."
The regular teacher, the Buddha said, "Not just believe what I said."
You examine. We have to reveal the truth.
Not just believe or the kind of presumption that was.
And reveal that nature.
So the aggregates, we think that kind.
Without any reason, or when the teaching is done,
without analyzing, without investigation, we just presume,
"Oh, my aggregates, me, like this kind." We always think.
And so we always commonly think.
If target "I" is target video, or "South" is target video, five aggregates.
"South" is target in the other grade teachings, in the philosophy teachings.
"South" is aggregate, then there is five aggregates,
and there must be five "I"s.
Nobody believes in the Buddha, won't see what they have, five "I"s.
It's everything one.
And then we look to the poem aggregates.
Poem aggregates is not just one piece.
It's so many components with poem aggregates.
And the Buddhism often said, four causal poems.
Fire, water, wind, earth.
And five result poems, five senses, five object senses, all together.
Ten, sorry, all together, putting on them.
So, as the poem divided, grosser level, and to potent,
we won't believe there is potent ego's "I"s.
It really was thing one, one.
And then, feeling aggregates.
And always we said, for example, we always kind of connected our poem with "I"
or "I'm sick, I'm, my body is sick, I sick, I sick."
So, it's kind of connected with body.
Then, it's feeling also, you see.
"Oh, I feel not happy. I feel great."
And it's connected to the feeling.
But we have feeling.
Feeling is generally in the direction of change of Buddhism.
So, there is four, like three feelings.
Good feeling, bad feeling, neutral feeling.
And that then, divided with the six senses.
"I", "a", "nose", "tongue", and "mind", "book", and "body".
Six senses. So, all together, eight different feelings.
But we don't believe. Again, there are eighteen different "I"s or egos.
And so on.
Then the perceptions of conceptions.
Conceptions in names and labels.
Again, there are so many conceptions, so many perceptions, labels, so many.
And there are not many, that we don't believe egos.
Then come to the mental formations.
Mental formations, also, the aggregate has that,
quoting, so, 51, sub-guru, the greatest teacher.
Mother Chagarman, sub-guru, 51.
And you can read all those. I'm sure you know all that.
And also, you can read if you like to know those.
And, again, when you look to the way, is "I" to this 51 mental state?
It's none of it. Everyone, 51, will say, "I'm not ego. I'm not I. I'm not ego."
They're all kind of like egos. No. Really, they do not exist at all.
Then the consciousness. Add consciousness.
Again, it's the same.
So, where is ego? This.
And then, with this, here, say that.
So, therefore, therefore, if we uproot,
there's not existing any ego, ego or existence,
then we are demolishing or destroying the mountains of the samsara.
Samsara.
The mountain is, of course, stable, solid, strong, big.
The greatest teacher, Buddha mentioned, always, in the teachings,
mentioned in the Vinaya teachings,
those great arabas, when they reach, or arabahood,
they said they destroyed 20 bricks of the mountain.
The mountain completely destroyed.
Destroyed. And now, they're totally free from
the mountain of the egos, completely destroyed,
and now they're free from the samsara.
What are those?
20 points.
Those are in here. Then we go here, I think, in the way of kurvata.
So, this one. The root of samsara is subgraspa.
I think that I mentioned that we are now, we're dead.
And then, that's monotony.
That's monotony examined.
Examped that arising, abiding,
and going nominal destination, and substances,
to settle, precisely, that there is best-less emptiness.
Best-less emptiness, and it is the asserting,
individual subnocence.
So, that is really establishing, then, the egolessless state.
There is no existing egolences.
And this mountain, 20, of course, I just mentioned 20,
there's a mountain. But, truly, those mountains,
that when you're examined, in the teachings, again,
those texts, the teachings, those teachings,
when you examine the ego, the ego, for example, here.
Here, he said it.
The normally, the mentally examined arising,
where ego comes from, first step.
Where that ego came.
And we started looking to the source of the ego,
exactly place where it comes from.
It does not really come from outside,
inside, any place.
That means the outside, such as those objectives,
those elements, any places.
And then, from where that comes from, to all the aggregates,
there's none of those come from, any place.
So, there is no, ego has no source.
And that is, of course, this technique is more of a jocchi technique,
or more easy way to technique.
There is the clinger on the ego has no source.
When you look to any place, this source is free.
So, therefore, ego has no source.
And then, here, there is also, when you examine the ego,
there is no place of the ego existing.
We mentioned, our end, a little bit really over there,
is not existing on the five aggregates.
But then, in more detail in philosophy teachings,
in the book, it is divided four ways.
Every ego is not existing on the five aggregates.
Then, second option is ego, I existing, side by side,
with the aggregate and ego.
Side by side.
So, that means two individuals, ego and aggregate.
The first is, examine where ego in the five aggregates.
We see there is no ego in the five aggregates.
And the five aggregates, the ego existing,
that again, in the teaching, say that, or maybe didn't make it,
that five aggregates are environment.
Its component is instantly changing, five aggregates.
Instantly, but ego is not changing.
Ego is not changing, always thinks ego.
"I" is the same.
So, there is not, not ego is not without,
with five aggregates, or ego is not in the five aggregates.